NMS-12529: Split OpenNMS and Minion docker setup (#2889)
OpenNMS/opennms: opennms-doc/guide-install/src/asciidoc/text/basic-setup-opennms/docker/opennms-docker.adoc

=== Run with Docker

Modern infrastructure allows you to deploy and run workloads in containers.

> With _{opennms-product-name}_ we provide and publish container images on link:https://hub.docker.com/u/opennms[DockerHub].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_{opennms-product-name}_ provides and publishes container images on link:https://hub.docker.com/u/opennms[DockerHub].
```

NOTE: We don't install all available plugins in our published Docker image.
      If you want to customize and maintain your own image, you can find the _Dockerfiles_ in our link:https://github.com/OpenNMS/opennms/tree/develop/opennms-container[source repository].

==== Objectives

* Run _{opennms-product-name}_ using _Docker Compose_ with a basic setup and _PostgreSQL_ on your local system as a quickstart
* Persist RRD files from _{opennms-product-name}_ and _PostgreSQL_ in a volume
* Introduce a reference with all available configuration and mount conventions for more advanced setups

==== Before you begin

You must have at least the following components installed:

> * Current stable _Docker_ release installed, e.g. installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/[Docker Documentation]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Current stable _Docker_ release installed, e.g., installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/[Docker Documentation]
```

> * Current stable _Docker Compose_ installed, e.g. installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Docker Compose instructions]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Current stable _Docker Compose_ installed, e.g., installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Docker Compose instructions]
```

> * You should have a basic knowledge of _Docker_, _Docker Compose_ with networking, persisting files and mounting directories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should have a basic knowledge of _Docker_, _Docker Compose_ with networking, persisting files and mounting directories
```

[source]
----
---
version: '3'

volumes:
  data-postgres: {}<1>
  data-opennms: {}<2>

services:
  database:<3>
    image: postgres:12<4>
    container_name: database<5>
    environment:<6>
      - TZ=Europe/Berlin
      - POSTGRES_USER=postgres
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
    volumes:<7>
      - data-postgres:/var/lib/postgresql/data
    healthcheck:<8>
      test: [ "CMD-SHELL", "pg_isready -U postgres" ]
      interval: 10s
      timeout: 30s
      retries: 3

  horizon:
    image: opennms/horizon:25.2.0<9>
    container_name: horizon
    environment:<10>
      - TZ=Europe/Berlin
      - POSTGRES_HOST=database
      - POSTGRES_PORT=5432
      - POSTGRES_USER=postgres
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
      - OPENNMS_DBNAME=opennms
      - OPENNMS_DBUSER=opennms
      - OPENNMS_DBPASS=opennms
    volumes:
      - data-opennms:/opt/opennms/share/rrd<11>
      - ./overlay:/opt/opennms-overlay<12>
    command: ["-s"]
    ports:<13>
      - "8980:8980/tcp"
      - "8101:8101/tcp"
      - "61616:61616/tcp"
    healthcheck:<14>
      test: [ "CMD", "curl", "-f", "-I", "http://localhost:8980/opennms/login.jsp" ]
      interval: 1m
      timeout: 5s
      retries: 3
----

> <1> Volume definition to persist permanently the _PostgreSQL_ database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Volume definition to persist  the _PostgreSQL_ database permanently 
```

> <2> Volume definition to persist permanently the _RRD_ files from _{opennms-product-name}_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Volume definition to persist the _RRD_ files from _{opennms-product-name}_ permanently 
```

<3> Service name `database` for the _PostgreSQL_ instance
<4> Image reference for the vanilla _PostgreSQL_ Docker image with a fixed version
<5> Friendly container name

> <6> Environment variables to initialize a postgres user with a password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<6> Environment variables to initialize a postgres user with a password
```

<7> Assign volume to persist the _PostgreSQL_ database
<8> Create a health check for the _PostgreSQL_ database
<9> Image reference for the _{opennms-product-name}_ container image using the latest stable version

> <10> Setup a data base connection using the `postgres` root user and initialize an `opennms` database with user and credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<10> Set up a database connection using the `postgres` root user and initialize an `opennms` database with user and credentials
```

<11> Assign the volume to persist the _RRD_ files permanently
<12> Mount the configuration files to make them accessible in a local directory
<13> Publish ports for the web user interface, _Karaf Shell_ and _ActiveMQ_
<14> Create a health check against the login page from _{opennms-product-name}_

===== Step 2: Start the service stack

[source,shell]
----
cd opennms-horizon
docker-compose up -d
----

NOTE: The startup and download can take a while; you can use the `docker-compose ps` command and wait until the health check for the `horizon` service is `up (healthy)`.
      

> ===== Step 3: Login to the Web UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===== Step 3: Log in to the Web UI
```

> After download and startup verify if you can access the web user interface by going to http://localhost:8980.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After download and startup, verify that you can access the web user interface by going to http://localhost:8980.
```

=== Run with Docker

Modern infrastructure allows you to deploy and run workloads in containers.
With _{opennms-product-name}_ we provide and publish container images on link:https://hub.docker.com/u/opennms[DockerHub].

NOTE: We don't install all available plugins in our published Docker image.

>       If you want ot customize and maintain your own image, you can find the _Dockerfiles_ in our link:https://github.com/OpenNMS/opennms/tree/develop/opennms-container[source repository].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If you want to customize and maintain your own image, you can find the _Dockerfiles_ in our link:https://github.com/OpenNMS/opennms/tree/develop/opennms-container[source repository].
```

==== Objectives

* Run _{opennms-product-name}_ using _Docker Compose_ with a basic setup and _PostgreSQL_ on your local system as a quickstart
* Persist RRD files from _{opennms-product-name}_ and _PostgreSQL_ in a volume
* Introduce a reference with all available configuration and mount conventions for more advanced setups

==== Before you begin

> It is required you have at least the following components installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must have at least the following components installed:
```

* Current stable _Docker_ release installed, e.g. installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/[Docker Documentation]
* Current stable _Docker Compose_ installed, e.g. installed from link:https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/[Docker Compose instructions]

> * You should have a basic knowledge about _Docker_, _Docker Compose_ with networking, persisting files and mounting directories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You should have a basic knowledge of _Docker_, _Docker Compose_ with networking, persisting files and mounting directories
```

==== Quickstart service stack

// No section numbers for step-by-step guide
:!sectnums:

===== Step 1: Create service stack for PostgreSQL and _{opennms-product-name}_

> The first section describes how to setup _{opennms-product-name}_ service stack in a `docker-compose.yml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first section describes how to set up _{opennms-product-name}_ service stack in a `docker-compose.yml` file.
```

> Create a project directory withg `mkdir opennms-horizon` and create inside a `docker-compose.yml` file with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a project directory with `mkdir opennms-horizon` and create a `docker-compose.yml` file in that directory with the following content:
```

----

> NOTE: The startup and download can take a while, you can use the `docker-compose ps` command and wait until the health check for the `horizon` service is `up (healthy)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The startup and download can take a while; you can use the `docker-compose ps` command and wait until the health check for the `horizon` service is `up (healthy)`.
```

      
===== Step 3: Login to the Web UI

> After download and startup verify if you can access the web user interface with going to http://localhost:8980.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After download and startup verify if you can access the web user interface by going to http://localhost:8980.
```

The default login is `admin` with password `admin`.

> IMPORTANT: Please change immediately your admin account and set a strong password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Please immediately change your admin account and set a strong password.
```
